.\"  Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Samuel Lidén Borell <samuel@kodafritt.se>
.\"
.\"  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\"  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\"  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\"  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\"  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\"  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"  
.\"  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\"  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"  
.\"  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\"  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\"  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\"  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\"  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
.\"  THE SOFTWARE.

.TH fribid 7 "2012-04-06" "" "FriBID"

.SH NAME
fribid \- a web browser plugin for BankID

.SH DESCRIPTION
FriBID is a web browser plugin for BankID, a kind of electronic ID (e-legitimation) that's used in Sweden.

.SH LIMITATIONS
FriBID supports both file-based electronic IDs (e-legitimation på fil) and card-based electronic IDs (e-legitimation på kort), with some limitations:
.LP
.IP -
The new file formats (NGE/NGP) from the official client of version 4.15.0.14 aren't supported.
.IP -
To change your password/PIN you need to use other programs (such as openssl with the pkcs12 sub-command).
.IP -
To be able to use card-based IDs you need to do some configuration, see http://wiki.fribid.se/sidor/SmartCards (in Swedish).
.LP
The official software, BankID Säkerhetsprogram, does not have these limitations but is proprietary software and supports less platforms and browsers.

.SH OBTAINING A BANKID
Most major banks in Sweden issue BankID, except for Nordea and SEB that use other technologies (as of 2011-04-20), but they are planning to use it as well in the near future.

There are two types of electronic IDs that you can use from your computer: Cards and files. A card is more secure but has to be ordered by mail, while file-based e-IDs are obtained online through your bank's web site. Both are supported by FriBID, but to use a card BankID you must have a card reader that works with OpenSC. Furthermore, OpenSC might need to be configured for the card reader.

.SH IMPORT AND EXPORT
FriBID uses the directories
.B cbt
and
.B .cbt
(a hidden directory) in your home directory to store file-based electronic IDs. To import and export your IDs, just copy them to or from any of these directories. If neither of the directories exist you can simply create a new directory with either of the names. Note that only the P12 file format is supported, the NGE and NGP formats used in the latest versions of the official software are unsupported.

.SH CONFIGURATION
FriBID loads the configuration file
.B ~/.config/fribid/config
if it exists. Below is an example. The first option controls which PKCS#11 module to use for smartcard support (or for other cryptographic tokens). The default is to use OpenSC's PKCS#11 module. The second option sets the software version that FriBID should pretend to be. The default is 4.15.0.14, since FriBID doesn't support some features in the more recent versions yet.

.IP
[pkcs11]
.br
module=/path/to/pkcs11/module
.br

.br
[expiry]
.br
version-to-emulate=4.19.0.11351

.SH USING FRIBID
FriBID will start automatically when you visit a web page that uses BankID for the log in system or to sign information. You can check that FriBID works on this page:
.LP
https://fribid.se/test/

.SH NOTES
FriBID is
.B not
an official BankID client, and you use it entirely at your own risk!

.SH FURTHER INFORMATION
More information can be found at the web page:
.LP
https://fribid.se/


